---
title: "Recommendations to users"
description: "Presented with useful and relevant options, do people feel encouraged to take up activities?"
date: 2025-09-01
tags:
- prototyping
---


Hello! We’ve undergone a mild rebrand. We’re now known as the Weight Management team, still under Personalised Prevention Services.
{.nhsuk-body-l}

Prior to this we were the [Personalised Prevention Platform (PPP).](/personalised-prevention-platform/)

A lot of our underlying thinking remains the same:

1. we can reach the right people
2. we can encourage people to act to improve their health
3. we can help people to discover services that meet their needs
4. we can understand enough about the user to suggest what might be effective
5. we have permission for a life-long dialogue

Our thin steel thread is an end-to-end prevention journey for weight management.

Our [previous post](/personalised-prevention-platform/2025/04/onboarding-users/) talked about how we've been exploring how we introduce our service to users, and find out a bit about them, through an “onboarding” process.

In this post let’s look at the next stage: recommending next steps.

## Why recommendations?

Everyone we have spoken to told us they believed they could be doing more to maintain their health.

However they remained largely unaware of the range of help already available to them.

We are confident that any given individual in any given neighbourhood will have a range of next steps that could be well suited to them. For example:

* solo self-directed apps
* in-person group programmes
* regular community events

We wanted to test how we might show people things available to them in a way that is clear, comprehensible, and enables action reduce friction

Specifically we wanted to test:
We wanted to test 3 overall themes

### 1. What’s the minimum viable information about an activity we can use?

The difficulty of gathering and maintaining good quality lists or directories is well known, especially if you’re going to deliberately ignore organisational boundaries in favour of user needs (see 2).

It’s also critical to acknowledge that the mechanics of some recommendations will be quite complex, even if their central proposition is not. For example any given recommendation could have multiple:

* eligibility criteria
* channels of delivery
* ways to join such as a choice of memberships
* ways to use such as access to different features based on membership

Rather than attempt to recreate and maintain a lot of complex content, we need to be able to do “just enough” and signpost outwards.

So we start lean in terms of how much information we decide we need to display, aiming to meet essential needs.

We work up from there based on testing with users:

* is there enough to understand the proposition?
* is there enough to know how to start?
* is our presentation of this engaging enough?

### 2. What’s the value of presenting a range of opportunities?

Since [discovery](/personalised-prevention-platform/2025/03/discovery-summary/) we’ve continuously proved that recommending a blend of national and local services has real value to people.

“National” and “local” are false distinctions - people are interested in Active 10 and they are also interested in the local Parkrun and they are also interested in free online workouts. Where the thing “comes from” is irrelevant.

To an extent this view is backed up by reflects wider prevention principles around the holistic nature and also neighbourhoods and public health etc. [this is bad]

Personalistion can only ever go so far. It is not realistic to assume that we can propose one perfect route for each individual. Choice and user agency must play a part. [this is bad]

So can we provide:

* enough choice for a user to find at least one interesting thing?
* a narrow enough selection to avoid overwhelm / choice paralysis?

### 3. How well does filtering work?

If we acknowledge personalisation can only go so far, it follows that we need to create mechanisms to allow users to explore beyond the initial set of recommendations we make.

Do people understand the connection between the:

* questions we’ve asked
* results themselves
* available filters in the results listing

How easy is it for the user to then change those recommendations by filtering?

## What we did

### Expanding the prototype user journey

We extended our user journey into how recommendations might work. We continued to iterate our onboarding segment, swapping out chunks to try variants or different approaches.

For results listings, we moved from hard coded specific selections matched to participants’ local areas, to a functional API using a selection of national services derived from the [Better Health](https://www.nhs.uk/better-health/) website.

{% from "nhsuk/components/images/macro.njk" import image as nhsukImage %}
{{ nhsukImage({
  classes: "app-media--full-width",
  src: "user-journey-iterations@2x.png",
  alt: "Screen grabs displaying 3 iterations of our user journey. Each journey is shown from left to right. Each iteration appears below the previous.",
  caption: "3 iterations of our user journey"
}) }}

[Open a large version of this image (4.5mb)](user-journey-iterations-xlarge.jpg)

### Listings of recommendations

{% from "nhsuk/components/images/macro.njk" import image as nhsukImage %}
{{ nhsukImage({
  classes: "app-media--full-width",
  src: "results-listing-iterations@2x.png",
  alt: "Screen grabs displaying 3 iterations of a results listing from left to right.",
  caption: "3 iterations of our results listing"
}) }}

### Details of a recommendation

Service display story (2 or 3 iterations?)
- From blocking to allowing
- Information and jazz hands - imagery and logos etc
- The right level of info - what's pragmatic and possible vs the ultimate ideal

{% from "nhsuk/components/images/macro.njk" import image as nhsukImage %}
{{ nhsukImage({
  classes: "app-media--full-width",
  src: "service-detail-iterations@2x.png",
  alt: "Screen grabs displaying 3 iterations of a results listing from left to right.",
  caption: "3 iterations of our results listing"
}) }}

(Act III - resolution) What we learnt


We genuinely had people ask if things were real, and then make notes to look them up afterwards.

Need for pop or imagery was sated by the addition of logos, and in some instances imagery within a details page.

Rekying purely on a sequnce of preferences means the “recommendation” aspect is very reduced



(Epilogue) What we’re doing next

- Latest work is around "the very first check in"
- Jumping the gap between presenting the options and figuring out if something's being done

- writing up something about intent in the recommnedations bit
- writing up somethibg about service display
