---
title: "Discovery summary"
description: Summary of the [x] week discovery into TEST
date: 2025-03-12
---

Some form of lead-in intro – as per Ralph’s comment, what was the genesis for this disco?

---

## Problem statement

<blockquote class="govuk-inset-text govuk-!-margin-left-0">
  <p>Many people are at risk of developing - or already have – one or more health conditions.</p>
  <p>People often don’t know where or how to access the services that could best help them manage or improve their health. Healthcare professionals can also struggle to find services to recommend.</p>
  <p>We also often don’t know how well services are meeting people’s needs. That means if people do find and use a service, we don’t have a way to help them stay motivated to keep using that service, or to help them find alternatives if the service doesn't work.</p>
</blockquote>

Our current problem statement has evolved over the course of discovery as we learned more about the problem we were trying to understand. It may change as we learn more in the alpha.


## Hypotheses

We had 4 overarching hypotheses we wanted to explore during the discovery:

> We can provide a valuable, personalised service that can connect people to useful help and support.

> There is a serviceable cohort of people who will proactively manage their health to reduce their need for future treatment.

> The proposed service can complement other NHS services and handle the relevant data flows to keep them in the loop regarding the patient's overall healthcare.

> We will be able to reach people early enough before health issues become problematic.


## What we explored

### Understanding more about potential users

We wanted to understand:

- what users’ health and life situations were like
- whether we could encourage users to use a platform that connects them to services that could help them improve or maintain their health

### Finding out the best ways to start to curate appropriate services for a user

We wanted to understand:

- what information we can collect about users to begin to make recommendations
- what factors matter most to users when choosing a service

### Understanding if we could have ongoing conversations with users

We wanted to find out if we could:

- start an ongoing conversation with users about their health, keeping them motivated to use the services they’ve selected
- find users alternatives if the service they chose doesn’t meet their needs

### Understanding where medical practitioners fit in

We wanted to understand whether this sort of capability could fit alongside the ways in which frontline medical practitioners already signpost patients to health and lifestyle services.


## Who we spoke to and why

### Primary users

#### Users we focused on This type of service could have a very large scope so we started by focusing on the people we thought it could best help.

We spoke to 24 people living in deprived areas in the UK, including Liverpool, Oldham, Rochdale, Bradford, Birmingham and Manchester. We targeted people who were most likely to suffer from deprivation by finding people in lower socioeconomic groups.

We talked to people with these risk factors:

- being overweight
- being inactive
- smoking
- heavier drinking

#### Why we focused on these users

People in deprived areas have the worst health outcomes and tend to make the most use of the NHS. If we can provide a service that can help them to improve or maintain their health, we can help reduce health inequalities and reduce the load on the NHS.

We wanted to focus on people who had existing health risk factors, but who had not yet developed a more severe health condition. We thought this could help us understand if we could prevent this group from developing those more severe conditions in the future.

### Secondary users

We also spoke to 5 GPs and GP practice staff in South West England to understand their experiences of patients with risk factors and how they recommend lifestyle and health services and resources to them.

